== tnetstring-rb

Tagged netstrings were conceived by Zed Shaw as a convenient text format for
exchanging small amounts of data over the network, based on
Dan Bernstein's earlier idea, {netstrings}[http://cr.yp.to/proto/netstrings.txt].
They are meant as an alternative to JSON that are easier to handle in low-level
network code and simpler to implement.

The following set of intended characteristics of tagged netstrings is
excerpted from the {official specification}[http://tnetstrings.org/]:

* Trivial to parse in every language without making errors.
* Resistant to buffer overflows and other problems.
* Fast and low resource intensive.
* Makes no assumptions about string contents and can store binary data without escaping or encoding them.
* Backward compatible with original netstrings.
* Transport agnostic, so it works with streams, messages, files, anything that's 8-bit clean.

Tagged netstrings support the following primitives: strings, integers, booleans
(true or false), null (or nil), lists (arrays), and dictionaries (hashes).

Please see the official spec {tnetstrings.org}[http://tnetstrings.org/] for
further detail.

== Examples

Given a string in tnetstring format, it can be parsed like so:

    str = '5:12345#'
    TNetstring.parse(str)

    #=> [12345, '']

This returns a tuple that contains the parsed object and any remaining string
input.

Encoding an object as a tnetstring is similarly straightforward:

    int = 12345
    TNetstring.encode(int)
  
    #=> '5:12345#'

PLease see the specs in this project for more examples.

== Installation

It's a gem, so do the usual:

    gem install tnetstring

== Attribution

The initial implementation was a port of Zed's first (pre-standardization)
tnetstrings {implementation in Python}[http://codepad.org/xct0E5ac].
